# jupyformat

`jupyformat` is a custom parser for Jupyter Book designed to execute Python code within your Markdown files, generating dynamic content during the parsing process.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

To install `jupyformat`, use `pip`:

```bash
pip install jupyformat
```

### Dependencies

List any external dependencies required by `jupyformat`.

## Usage

Integrate `jupyformat` into your Jupyter Book configuration to enhance content parsing. Update your `_config.yml` or equivalent configuration file:

```yaml
# _config.yml

# ...

sphinx:
  config:
    nb_custom_formats:
        .bpy:
        - jupyformat.reads
        - format: .md

```

Now, your Jupyter Book will use `jupyformat` to read `.bpy` files or whatever extension as long is python code.

## Features

- **Dynamic Content:** Execute Python code within Markdown files to generate dynamic content.
- **Custom Metadata:** Utilize custom metadata in your `.md` files to control rendering options.
- **Flexible Output Formats:** Support for rendering content in various output formats.

## Examples

### Executing Python Code

```python
# your_file.bpy

name = Juan Prieto
output = f"# This is a dynamic Markdown content generated by: {name}"
```

### Using Custom Metadata

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to enhance and improve `jupyformat`. Feel free to submit bug reports, feature requests, or pull requests. Refer to the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for details.

### Code Style

Specify the coding style and any linters or formatting tools used in the project.

### Testing

You can test with pytest

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
